Princess, I'm living. Look at all these bills. How are they going to get paid? You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can't and will be used against you in the court of law. If I got locked away and we lost it all today tell me honestly would you still love me the same? If I showed you my flaws if I couldn't be strong tell me honestly would you still love me the same right. If I judge for like me would you stay by my side or is you gonna say goodbye can you tell me right now if I couldn't buy you the fancy things in life shoddy would it be all right come on, show me that you do now tell me, would you really ride for me, baby? Tell me, would you die for me would you spend your whole life with me would you be there to always hold me down tell me, would you really cry for me baby don't lie to me so I want to know would you stick around if I got lots of ways and we lost it all today? To me honestly would you still love me the same? If I showed you my flaws? If I couldn't be strong tell me honestly, how are they going to get paid? What is your plan? I train, I have a plan. You just need to trust me, man. Get lay down. Down. All I want is somebody really who don't need much now tell me, would you really ride for me, baby? Tell me, would you die for me? Would you spend your whole life with me? Would you be there to always hold me down? Tell me, would you really cry for me? If I didn't have anything? I want to know would you stick around if I got locked away and we lost it all today? Tell me honestly, would you still love me the same? If I showed you my thoughts? If I couldn't be strong? Tell me honestly, would you still love me? Tell me, would you want it tell me, tell me, would you call me if you knew I wasn't Molly? Cause I need I gotta lose always by my side or is he just trying to blame me? Cause I need our girl to hold me down for I if I got locked away and we lost it all today tell me honestly, would you still love me the same? If I showed you my flaws? If I couldn't be strong? Tell me honestly, would you still love me? If I got locked away and we loved it all today, honestly, would you still love me the same? If I show you my thoughts? If I could be strong? Tell me honestly, would you still love me.