Hi, welcome to 8th edition of NH Dialogues. 8 May is observed as the world Thalassemia Day and I am very, very keen for you to know more about thalassemia. You'd be surprised to know that India is the capital for thalassemia disease of the world. Over 10,000 children in our country are born every year with thalassemia major which is a serious problem. To answer all your questions, I have my friends here, Doctor Sunil Bhatt who is the head of pediatric Hemato oncology of Mazumdarsha Cancer center at Narayana health city in Bangalore. He is a very, very accomplished pediatric hemato oncologist. He is also editor of Journal of Medical Pediatric Oncology. He is the executive board member of the oncology division of Pediatric association of India and many other positions he is holding. On my right is doctor Rajiv Dekhdev. He's the head of hematology and hemato oncology at Narayana Super Specialty Hospital in Calcutta in Howard. Doctor day is also the associate professor of department of Hematology at NRS medical college, Calcutta, which is one of the best medical colleges of our country. Doctor day, welcome to the show and thank you, Sunil, welcome to the show. We have lot of questions. Obviously I can't ask you all the questions because of time limitations. I'm going to ask you some of the common questions which are asked by many people. The first question is to doctor Sunil Bhatt. Sunil, a lady called Farzana from Dhaka, Uttara Dhaka, Bangladesh. She wants to know what is thalassemia? What are the types of thalassemia, how common it is? She wants to know more about. Thalassemia is a genetic disease. And we know we have got red cells in our blood and the red cells carry hemoglobin in them. This hemoglobin is the lifeline of our body. So what happens in thalassemia is that there's a defective manufacturing of this hemoglobin. So they. So these babies are born with a genetic defect. Because of this genetic defect, the hemoglobin production is little less. And also the red cells which are made do not live long enough. So because of that, these children, they. They are dependent on blood transfers from outside. So we need to give them blood transfer every few weeks. Their body cannot make enough blood blood to keep them living. And if we do not give blood transfusions to these kids, more than 90% of them will die before two years of age. So to keep them alive, to sustain their life, we need to give the blood transfusions every few weeks to maintain the hemoglobin levels. Now what are the types? It's usually of two types. It's called alpha thalassemia and beta thalassemia. It depends on which type of hemoglobin chain defect is there. And we usually come across in India also in the eastern part of India, including Bangladesh, the more common variant is beta thalassemia. Although yes, in Southeast Asia and some parts of China, alpha thalassemia is also very prevalent. But for all practical purposes, the management as well as the presentation and how these children are to be managed are almost same. Thank you. Thank you. Sunil. Rajiv Priyam Bada from Bangalore wants to know what are the signs and symptoms of thalassemia to detect it early and what are the. Are there any tests to diagnose thalassemia? Yes, sir. As doctor Schumilhe mentioned that thalassemia is mainly of two types depending on the genetic abnormalities, alpha and beta. But depending on the clinical manifestations, we divide it into thalassemia major and thalassemia intermedia. Thalassemia major are those patients who are dependent or regular blood transfusion for their survival. These patients usually manifest in the earlier life at around six months of their age when our fetal hemoglobin are gradually replaced by the adult hemoglobin. And these patients doesn't have their normal amount of adult hemoglobin. So they manifest as palar anemia and recurrent infections. And when they are transfusion dependent, they get regular transfusion. Then because of the regular transmission they develop iron overload. Because we know that one unit of blood contains around 200 milligram of iron and daily we absorb around 1 iron. So with one unit of blood transfusion we acquire around six months iron storage. So those patients who are on regular blood transmission, they acquiring tremulous amount of iron. Those irons are accumulated in liver causing hepatic dysfunction, hepatic failure. They are accumulated in the live in heart causing cardiomyopathy and heart failure. They also are accumulated in the different endocrine glands, endocrine organs causing growth, retardation gradually, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, diabetes and all sorts. But those patients who are having thalassemia intermedia, they need intermittent blood transfusion during some infection surgery. Those kind of. Those patients usually present as different thrombotic episodes like leg ulcers, different thrombosis because their blood has got hypercoagulability. So overall, the patients which we encounter in our clinic are mostly thalassemia major. They present earlier in their life and present with anemia and other manifestations of anemia. I feel very sad for the parents who have a child with the thalasseries. Sunil, a gentleman called Ashish Kumar Dutta. He's from Chittagong, Bangladesh. Lot of questions from Bangladesh. How to prevent thalassemia, how to cure thalassemia and how to early diagnose this thalassemia at the time before the birth. That's a very important question. They want to know, is it possible to diagnose thalassemia before the child is born? Yes, I think it's a very relevant question because we know that there have been countries who have eradicated thalassemia. And Italy, Greece are one of the examples of that. They have. Italy and Greece have eradicated thalassemia. I tell you how. See, we know that it's a genetic problem and both the parents of carriers of this disease. So we cannot irradiate the carrier state because carriers, anyways are asymptomatic people. They don't have any problems. But what we can irradiate is the disease thalassemia measure itself can eradicate. And how. We need to know that we are carriers of thalassemia. As I told earlier, you know, the carrier state can range from one to 18%. That means on an average, in various parts of our country, one in 10% is thalassemic carrier. So if we know our thalassemia carrier state, what we can do is what's called as premarital counseling. Number one, that means before a couple decides to marry, they. They get their simple thalassemia test done and see whether they are carriers of this disease or not. If there are carriers of this disease, they can still go and marry, they can still plan a child. But when the mother is pregnant, at that time, around ten to twelve weeks of pregnancy, we can do a simple test in the mother and detect whether this child who is going to be born has got thalassemia major or not. If the child has got thalassemia major, we can abort this child. If the child has got a carrier state or a normal state, we can continue with the pregnancy. How accurate is this? So this, as the time has gone bye, the accuracy of the test have also increased and the current available investigations, it's about 99% sensitivity of this test. Yes, there's still a theoretical 1% risk of missing the diagnosis, but I think 99% is still quite effective. One more thing is what we come across very commonly in our practice is now, unfortunately, first child family has developed thalassemia already. They didn't come to know about it. Parents didn't know about their carrier state and the child has been born with thalassemia already. Now there are two scenarios here. One is that the families are so terrified to go for another child they never think about it. So what I want to convey is that you can still plan another baby and another baby has got 25% chances of having thalassemia but 75 chances of not having thalassemia measured. And that again can be tested by the simple test at ten to twelve weeks of pregnancy. The other scenario is that one child has got thalassemia. The families still plan another child. Do not go for this antenatal testing and have another child with thalassemia. So which is very devastating situation. So I think the message here is that know youre carrier state and get tested at ten to twelve weeks of pregnancy. Excellent. Sunil Anand Thakkar from Hyderabad wants. Is it mandatory for a couple to check for tadasimi before they get married? My viewpoint on that is very, very simple. And I feel that, you know, while we do our horoscope matching, I think as a part of that we should also at the simple blood test called HBA electrophoresis and to know your carrier state how much that costs. I see the cost of the HBA electroporosis has really come down and it will vary from one to two rs3000 depending on which place you are doing it. But it's not terribly expensive. I know during our pregnancies, you know, some 30 ultrasounds are ordered. Right. So I think there's always a place. So have this one little hb electrophoresis test done. Especially in areas. Especially in areas wherein the prevalence is very, is very high. You know, like we discussed in some communities, some parts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, northeast or West Bengal, Odisha, Jar, Bihar, parts of Bihar, parts of north Karnataka, these are the high endemic areas. So I think it should be part of a routine investigation to be done. Thanks. Thanks. Sunil. Rajiv Arifa Begum from Dhaka, Bangladesh wants to know. I was told my daughter, three year old, he has thalassemia trait but she was not given any treatment. What is the treatment, what are the associative risks and what should I do about them? Yeah. So during discussion of thalassemia, as doctor shunning Bhatt mentioned, we need to know what is thalassemia disease, thalassemia patient and thalassemia trait or carrier thalassemia. If a patient is having thalassemia, then the patient must have acquired two mutations from both of his or her parents. If the person has only one mutation in one gene and other gene is normal, we call it a thalassemia trait. Thalassemia trait are completely asymptomatic because the normal gene is hyperactive and it produce enough hemoglobin to make that person completely asymptomatic and non animal. His or her hemoglobin that is thalassemia traits. Hemoglobin is either normal or in the lower range of normal. If a thalassemia trait develop anemia, there must be some other reason for anemia. Not thalassemia trait. Condition is responsible for that. And most common cause of anemia in thalassemia trait is simply iron deficiency anemia. And often what mistake is been done by zucchini. Once it is diagnosed as thalassemetrate, they stop iron. They ask specifically don't take iron rich food because it is contraindicated in thalassemia patient. So they become iron deficiencies. And many important persons are living their life normally with racemetry condition. The biggest celebrity of India amtrakshan is thalassemia trade. So thalassemia trade didn't prevent him from becoming big bee. And I myself is thalassemiat faith living a normal life. So get the test done. As doctor Shunvat mentioned, know whether your child is thalassemia trait or not. If it is thalassemia trait, he or she doesn't need any treatment. But be aware of during his marriage. So preferably don't allow her to marry another thalassemia trait so that their child can have thalassemia major. But if the thalassemia trait patient develop anemia, then evaluate the cause of anemia and treat the cause of anemia, not the thalassemia. Rajiv, I'm sure your wife is not callous. No, she is not. Good. Good. Premarital counselling has happened here. But my daughter is okay. She has traded it. The Sunil tawhid nisha from Dhaka wants to know what are the options for parents with takae thalassemia trait for a. For the. What are the options of parents with thalassemia trait for trying to. Harvey, I think we partly addressed this question and that was that. Yes, if there's option of a thalassemic trait not marrying a thalassemic trait, that should be the first step to towards prevention. But if the. If the two parents are already trait. I mean a couple is already trait. Both of them are thalassemic traits. We can still plan a baby and do that simple test at ten to twelve weeks of pregnancy to know that the baby their mother is carrying is not having thalassemia major. And if she's having thalassemia major, we go for abortion. If the baby is normal or even trait, we continue with the pregnancy. So it's not that two thalassemic traits who have married, they cannot have children. They can still have children. They can have normal children. Excellent. Good news. Rajiv Rashmi from Bombay wants to know what complications can happen in thalassemia and how to follow to look for this complication. Yeah, we know that in thalassemia what happens? The blood cells are destroyed and most of the destruction occurs in the bone marrow. So the most common symptom or complication is anemia. To treat anemia, what we do is we transfuse and with transfusion, as I mentioned before, there is iron overload. The blood transfusion, transfusion and that iron overload causes cardiomyopathy, causes hepatic dysfunction and in rare cases it may cause hepatic carcinoma. Also hepatoma, the iron overload in the endocrine organ can cause endocrinopathies. And there are complications of treatment. Also the complications of treatment is because of blood transmission. The thalassemic patients may acquire those transmitted blood transmitted diseases like HBS G, HIV infection, hcv infection. And as I told before that in thalassemia intermediate patient may present with thrombotic episodes like leg ulcers, like different thrombosis. So usually these are the complications. Now, how to manage it? We have to give transfusion to thalassemia major patient. But we have to take out the iron which is already stored in the body. Because the most common cause of death in thalassemia major is cardiac failure due to iron hormone. So there is a chelating agent. A lot of agents are there injectable as well as oral genetic agent. But the injectable ones are usually not used nowadays because the. Usually it has to give eight to 12 hours per day subcutaneous injection, which is very painful. So now there is an oral chelator. So we can give once a day that chelator and that can take out the iron. Only one thing is it is bit costly and it has to be taken almost like long. So these treatment and if there is endocrinopathy, we have to supplement the hormone necessary hormone. Thanks. Thanks, Rajiv. The Sunil Kam, Tajul Hasan and Mohammed Sadhar from Chile, Bangladesh. They want to know how do you. What are the medicines for thalassemia patients? Is there any procedure how effectively a thalassemic patient can be managed? I think we partly address this question in bits and pieces. But what I want to say is two things. That is, we already discussed that this child of thalassemia major needs blood transfusion. Now, there are some things we need to remember when we give blood transfusion. One is that there is a deficiency of red cells. Other blood components are fine. So we need to give only red cell transfusion to these patients, what's called as Paxil transmission. We should not do blanket whole blood transfusions because that has its own problems associated. That is number one. Number two is that we need to keep the hemoglobin levels or the blood level in these patients as much as normal as possible, because the children have to grow. They have to. They have to. They have to grow. And the low levels of hemoglobin, if we maintain it, have effect on the body. The body is always under tremendous amount of pressure. Their liver becomes big, the spleen becomes big. So the message is that we need to keep the hemoglobins as much near as possible. And by that, I mean when they go for blood transfusion on that particular day, try to keep it between nine to ten. Right? Because when we do that, we are keeping that in a normal range. If we keep the levels in a lower range, like six, seven, eight, with time, the liver becomes big, the spleen becomes big. There's a lot of changes in the bones which happen, and overall, eventually, they need more blood transfusion because the spleen eats away the blood eventually. So that's another message we need to convey. The third message is that with these red cells, we do not want to give white cells because the white cells mediate allergic reactions. And also these patients develop what's called as sensitization. They have been exposed so much blood from so many different people. So if possible, we need to take these white cells out from the blood, and that can be done by what's called as leukocyte filter or white cell filter. So please try to use that white cell filter or ask your blood bank to do that white cell filtration at the blood bank level. So that is number three with blood transfusion, number four, which is very important as well, which partly discusses that blood can be a medium for infections, especially blood borne infections like hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C or HIV, and many more. So we need to ensure that the blood which has been given to these patients is tested for these infections because they are getting it frequently. The risk of getting this infection is very high. So we need to get this blood tested for these infections. So that is, with regards to blood transfusion. What we need to do. The other aspect is, as we already discussed, is that we pay a cost. We pay a price for this blood transfusion. Every blood transfusion comes with an iron overload. And unfortunately, our bodies do not have the capacity by itself to take iron out from the body. So this iron needs to go out of the body and we need to give them iron reducing medicines or iron chelating medicines, which we call. And they need to be given lifelong and to be adjusted as per their iron levels in the body. And number three, which is very important as well, is to. We need to monitor these children. We need to monitor these children for growth. We need to monitor these children for the side effects of iron overload. And we need to monitor these children for sexual growth when they are 12, 13, 14 years of age. And that time is very crucial to keep a watch on their hormonal level, endocrine level. So these are some of the things which we need to do to effectively manage these children. Thanks. Thanks, Sunil. Another question to sunit. For the last one year, I'm suffering from thalassemia. Is there a cure for thalassemia? How can I get rid of it completely? See, the. I think what we just discussed was how we manage thalassemic. And this management, which we discussed, like blood transfusion and iron reducing medications, is what is the supportive care. How do you support them? The only cure which is possible, and I am using the term today because we don't know what's going to happen in the next few years time. The only cure which is available for thalassemic today is bone marrow transplantation. And what happens in bone marrow transplantation. It's very interesting. I always thought bone marrow transplant is for patients with cancer. Yeah, no, I think that's, again, it's probably a myth, I should say, because bone wave transfer is effective treatment for lots of conditions. Yes, of course, cancers as well, but lots of other conditions which are genetic in origin and have a problem in the bone marrow. So bone marrow is our factory where all this blood is formed. And we have a defect in the factory because of the genetic problem in thalassemia, there is a defect in the marrow. So if we can replace that marrow, change this marrow and replace it by a healthy marrow, we can cure the problem. And not only thalassemia, some. Lots of other diseases like sickle cell anemia, which is similar to thalassemia, lot of immunodefriendsic disorders or bone marrow freelance syndrome, wherein the bone marrow does not work well or call it eplastic anemia or other conditions wherein, you know, you can use bone marrow transplant for cure and thalassemia for, you know, for information of the people is forms about 25% of transplant workload in our country, because, as I said, we are the thalassemic capital. So quarter transplants in our country are happening for thalassemia. Nishp Sunil, what is the success rate of bone nerve transport for thalassemia? I will take a minute to explain little more because I dont want to give a figure and I just want to basically make people understand what is important. When we talk about bone wool transplant, there are two aspects. One is that this child, who needs a transplant for whatever condition, and here we are talking about thalassemia, how well he has been managed for his thalassemia. Right. As we, as we discussed, you know, they can have heart problems, liver problems and other problems. If they only develop those problems, it becomes a problem for transplant as well. So the idea is that child has to be managed well. His iron has to be well, his liver has to be well, his heart has to be well. That will not only help in transplant, but otherwise as well. So very important thing is how this, how this child is. Who is going to have transplant for hexigen number two is also what is the donor status? I mean, who is going to donate for this child and what is the matching level? Most of the transplants which we do for thalassemia are from their siblings, from their brothers or sisters who are full match. So if there's an ideal situation, the ideal situation is that this patient who's having transplant is young child. He doesn't have much problems with liver and heart. He's a young age and we have got a brother or sister completely matching him. We have over 90% to 95% success rates in our hospital. 90% to 95% success rate for bone marrow transplant for thalassemia? Yes. That's great. Excellent. As long as they have a match, well, they match donors. It makes a lot of difference. Now, very sensitive question and how much it costs. Okay, so I think I won't, I won't elaborate it too much. I just want to say for a bone marrow transplant, the patient needs to be admitted to the hospital for about five to six weeks, one and a half months. They stay in the hospital. Okay. So, and we could, we can, we can imagine that it's a resource, you know, resources are used during that five, say five, six months, which is medications, blood products and all other things, but still I think we have managed to do this transfers around 1011 lakh rupees. You know, you can imagine five to six weeks of stay, lot of medications and some of them are imported, little expensive and that is a usual average cost for a math sibling transfer. But having said that, you know there's a program in place in our unit wherein we are able to even transport for five to six lakh rupees for non effort in college. This is sponsored by Lakshmi. Exactly. Machines from primordial. They are sponsored. So you are able to do the bone marrow transplant on four to five. That's great. Thanks to doctor. Excellent, excellent. Rajiv Vikas and Rajiv Acharya from Bombay want to know are there any vitamins or supplements that I can take as a treatment for thalassemia or surgery is the only option. What diet should be taken? Yeah, vitamin for thalassemia, which is used for the treatment as a supportive treatment is folic acid because folic acid is required to produce DNA. And in thalassemia as there is restriction of RBC's there is tremendous amount of red cell production in the bone marrow. As mentioned earlier, the bone marrow produces about nine to ten times of normal of its capacity. In thalassemia patients they are produced and they are destroyed. So there is lot of DNA productions also there. So folic acid is required for the DNA. So folic acid supplementation should be there. If we don't give folic acid supplementation the patient will develop folic acid deficiency related anemia. In addition to thalassin and vitamin c, supplementation is often given but it should be given along with chelating agents to take out iron because it helps in taking out iron. So these two vitamins can be given. Folic acid is essential and vitamin C along with chelating agents. And regarding operation, you know, in thalassemia there is splenomegaly and often the spleen is massively enlarged. Normally one third of our blood volume is stored in the spleen. So if a patient is having a huge spleen. So an enormous amount of blood along with other component platelets and the milk are stored in the spleen. So if there is features of hyperspenism means there is anemia along with low wvc count and low platelet. So it is an indication of splenectomy. If the blood transfusion requirement is too high there is a cutoff. But we need to follow up. The patients usually cut off is 200 year. So it's a sign that's clean, engulfing lot of blood. So this is an indication. And often these patients develop as used spino megali infarction. Splenic infarction as thalassemia itself is a hyper probably condition, so it causes obstruction of spleenic vein and infraction of spleen. These are the indications where we need to do splenectomy. And after doing splenectomy, it has been seen that blood transmission requirement is less. Yeah, those patients who are suppose are taking two or three transmission per month after spinotomy, it has been seen that it came down to two to three month, one transmission, two to three months. But usually it is not sustainable in next two, three years. Again, the patient the because other organs starts producing these extramural hematopoies liver. So splenectomy is required in these conditions, but it can cure thalassemia and the benefit is not long sustainable. So thank you. Thanks. Rajiv Sunil, Professor Pradeep from Mymen Singh, Bangladesh wants to know, is umbilicum called blood transfusion cure a thalassemic patient? So I think I'll take question different way. We discussed just now that a bone marrow transplant can cure thalassemia. And bone marrow transplant is a little older term because when the transplant activity started first time, these bone, bone blood forming stem cells were taken from the bone marrow. That's from the backside of the hip bone. That was first how it was used. But in the last almost 1015 years, what we have also known that these blood forming stem cells can also be taken from two other sources. One of them is umbilical cord blood. Trans blood. Umbilical cord blood, what he's mentioning here. And we can also take the stem cells from the blood from the veins, not from the marrow, but from the veins. We collect those stem cells from the blood of the donor in a machine called aphorism. It's a three, four hour procedure and daycare procedure. Patient comes in, donates his stem cells and goes back. So yes, umbilical cord blood is also a source of blood forming stem cells and can be used for transplant purposes. But we just need to keep few things in mind when we are talking about umbilical cord blood. Umbilical cord blood transplant one is that the amount of stem cells in umbilical cord blood is limited and it may be sufficient for a child of certain weight, it may not be sufficient for a bigger child or for adulthood. Number one. Number two is, although with umbilical cord blood transplant, we don't need a very perfect match, but that applies mainly to transplants in cancers. But when we are talking about a non cancerous condition like thalassemia. We still need a near perfect match because otherwise the rejection rates are little higher. So there are some technicalities which the treating hematologist, when they go and meet him will discuss with them. The simple answer is yes, we can use umbilical cord blood transplant as a treatment option for thalassemics. But there are some technicalities which needs to be discussed with a treating hematologist whether in that particular child it is a good option or not. Excellent. Sunil. Indira Vijayan from Kochi, Kerala wants to ask me a question. Her question is, I am a volunteer of solace, an NGO working with children with long term illness including thalassemia. We have a few patients with thalassemia. Is there a complete cure? What are the results of? I think we discussed it and I. Sorry, I didn't catch that name. What was the name? Her name is Indira. Miss Indira, I want to tell you that yes, bone marrow transplant is a cure for thalassemics. And we should really, all of us, the society should work towards permanent cure for thalassemics. And you're doing a great job in other chronic diseases. I would request you to join hands with us and let us see if we can change the lives of some of the children who at least have some match donors and we can transplant them. And we already discussed the cure rates can be as high as 90% to 95% if there's a matching family donor and if the patients are in good shape. Excellent. Sir, can I add something? Because thalassemia is a condition where only doctor or only parents can't handle or manage the situation. The society altogether should handle this situation. And that's why the role of NGO's like this is very important here. Because the NGO's can generate awareness and they can go to school colleges before marriage. And to generate awareness. Number one. Number two is this. They can aware people about blood donation. And number three is as this lifelong treatment is very expensive, they can help to mobilize fund for this thalassemia treatment as well as bone marrow transplantation. So the role of injuries is very important in this condition. From Narayana Super Specialty Hospital or in this 8th May on World Thalassemia day, we have taken some initiative. We contacted the local NGO's who are working on thalassemia or Lions club kind of thing. So we have arranged a meeting with them to generate awareness. We have planned to start a card called thala care card. We will give this card to thalassemia patients so that they can avail a free medical consultation. And once a month blood count we discard and the certain interval we need some other investigations so that they can avail in a subsidized way. So these initiatives we have taken to counteract thalassemia problem as a society. Excellent. Great service. Rajiv, the Rajiv Muhammad from Algeria wants to know. My daughter is 13 year old and she has e beta thalassemia, called thalassemia intermediate. What does it mean? Is there any problem for her? Yes, it is a very relevant and good question. Specially as. As the Bengal and northeastern provinces are concerned. E beta thalassemia is a type of thalassemia where one gene containing thalassemia mutation, as Prabhupert mentioned, and other gene contain an e mutation which is a special type of hemoglobin. But when this e and beta matches, they behave as thalassemia. Why? Because e hemoglobin is unstable hemoglobin and they are synthesized in a lesser quantity compared to normal hemoglobin. So eventually they produce less amount of hemoglobin. And when they combine with beta mutation, they produce e beta, which is a thalassemia. But the manifestation of e beta thalassemia is varied. It ranges from thalassemia intermedia, where the patient may not require any transfusion or seldom required transfusion to the extent of thalassemia major, like beta thalassemia major, where they are dependent on blood transmission for their survival. There are lots of theories who are going to behave in which ways. But practically speaking, till date there is no single answer why these e beta patients are behaving differently. Because it has been seen that in a same family, the siblings having e beta thalassemia, having same mutations are behaving differently. One sibling require monthly transfusion, other siblings are okay with ebita thalassemia. But the thing is e beta thalassemia should be followed under a hematologist or pediatrician their iron status at least regularly, six to one yearly, six month to one yearly check to see what is their iron level. Because it has been seen that in thalassemia intermedia with lower level of ferritin, which is a marker of iron storage, the patient develops complications of iron overload. In thalassemia major. The ferritin level must be very high to develop the complications. So EbIta thalassemia may have varied expression. They may require treatment regularly or they may require selenium blood transfusion. But they must be under some hematologist of adiatrician and should be carefully followed up for their iron status and other complications. Thanks, Rajiv Soni. This is the last question for you from Venkatesh from Calcutta. Any role for gene therapy thalassemia? I think a very hot question these days on thalassemia is gene therapy. It's a dream which the scientists, which is the hematologist have been having for the last couple of decades now, I think. And the idea is that why don't we genetic disorder, and this is one gene which has a problem. So why don't we take that gene, pick the corrected gene and put it back in the patient? That is the simplest form of treatment. So there's lot of work going on in this field. There are some technical problems, problems which are coming up. And one of the problems which is coming up is the gene is little big and incorporation, taking the gene and incorporating it into the, into the patient cells which are defective. This has become a challenge. But having said that, gene therapy is already taking lot of strides and lot of progress has been made in severe common immunodeficiencies, which are again genetic and have similar kind of similar kind of problems. So it's been successfully tried in combined immunodeficiencies. And I don't think, you know, it may not. I have no reason to believe that it may not happen in thalassemia. So today, if you ask me, is gene therapy available as a treatment option for thalassemia? It's not, but we hope in the next few years to come we should see as a treatment option for Alice. Thanks, Sunil. With this happy note, let's end our NH dialogue. India. Once again, I would like to inform you that is the capital, global capital for terrorist. Interestingly, countries like Greece and Italy have eradicated. Can we aid to eradicate thalassemia from the face of this country? It is possible, yes. For that we need support from the government, policymakers and the people and the NGO's and everyone in this country. It is possible. Let's aim to make India a thalassemia free zone. Thank you very much and looking forward to seeing you again during next NH dialogue. Thank you.